Complete detailed design in resource binding diagnostic infrastructure spec (#287)
microsoft/hlsl-specs: proposals/infra/INF-0005-register-types-and-diagnostics.md

because this behavior was permissible in legacy versions of the compiler. These warnings
are also part of the same warning group, `LegacyConstantRegisterBinding`.

> `DiagnoseHLSLRegisterAttribute` will also be responsible for emitting a diagnostic 

Reviewer: There's something strange about the line endings (maybe) in this file?  These diffs are odd.  Plus if I try and use the "Add a suggestion" feature then the diff thinks that the entire line has changed.

Any ideas what may have happened?

Author: I think I just left some whitespace originally, merged that in, and then Chris opened a PR to fix it while this new PR was up.

decl to which the register annotation is being applied, and using the data in the
annotation to determine what diagnostics, if any, to emit. 
`DiagnoseHLSLRegisterAttribute` will be fully responsible for halting compilation 
if there is any semantic fault in the application of the register annotation.

## Detailed design
Firstly, below is some sample code that would cause the proposed diagnostics to be emitted:
```
// UDTs with register bindings for resources that don't exist:
//
// - warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
// warning: binding type '%select{t|u|b|s|c}0' only applies to types containing '%select{srv resources|uav resources|constant buffer resources|sampler state|constant buffer data}0'
struct Foo { float f; };
Foo x : register(t0);
// warning: binding type 't' only applies to types containing 'srv' resources.
//

// Mismatched register bindings:
//
// - err_hlsl_binding_type_mismatch
// error: binding type '%select{t|u|b|s|c}0' only applies to '%select{srv resources|uav resources|constant buffer resources|sampler state|constant buffer data}0'
float f : register(t0);
// error: binding type 't' only applies to 'srv' resources.
RWBuffer<float> f : register(c3);

> // error: binding type 'c' only applies to constant buffer data.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if "constant buffer data" is the correct term to use here? It only applies to offsets in $Globals, doesn't it?

If you use it inside a `cbuffer` then you get a warning to use `packoffset`.  I think earlier in the document it talks about "offset into $Globals", I wonder if some of that text could make it here?

Author: I think the `offset` part is an implementation detail that doesn't need to be mentioned in the diagnostic, but I could totally see changing the message to:
`...only applies to $Globals constant buffer data`
Thoughts?

Reviewer: I'm not sure I agree that the offset part is an implementation detail - the developer absolutely needs to know what that does!

However, for a diagnostic I think it's ok to lean on just trying to describe what it has to apply to.  

Did we find a snappy way to classify things that go into $Globals?  Is it "global data" or "numeric globals" perhaps?

Reviewer: Any thoughts on resolution to this one?

Author: How about `default cbuffer globals`?

Reviewer: TBH, I think any mention of cbuffer and $Globals is probably confusing here.  How about: 

`error: binding type 'c' only applies to variables in the global scope`

//

// Invalid binding types:
//
// err_hlsl_binding_type_invalid
// error: binding type '%0' is invalid.
float f : register(x0);
// error: binding type 'x' is invalid.
//

// Multiple bindings with the same register type:
//
// - err_hlsl_duplicate_register_annotation
// error: binding type '%select{t|u|b|s|c|i}' cannot be applied more than once
struct Bar{
  RWBuffer<int> a;
  RWBuffer<int> b;
};
Bar x : register(t9) : register(t10);

> // error: binding type 'u' cannot be applied more than once

Reviewer: I think in this example it should be `'t'`?  Although there should be another error because there aren't any `t` resources in that UDT.

Author: I actually intended the bindings to use `u`, not `t`. Fixed.

//

// Binding 'c' when it should be packoffset in non-global scope:
//

> // - warn_hlsl_register_type_c_packoffset
> // warning: binding type 'c' ignored in buffer declaration. Did you mean 'pack_offset'?
> cbuffer g_cbuffer { float f : register(c2); }
> // warning: binding type 'c' ignored in buffer declaration. Did you mean 'pack_offset'?

Reviewer: I think it is spelled `packoffset`.

```suggestion
// - warn_hlsl_register_type_c_packoffset
// warning: binding type 'c' ignored in buffer declaration. Did you mean 'packoffset'?
cbuffer g_cbuffer { float f : register(c2); }
// warning: binding type 'c' ignored in buffer declaration. Did you mean 'packoffset'?

```

> // warning: binding type 'c' ignored in buffer declaration. Did you mean 'pack_offset'?

Reviewer: I think it is spelled `packoffset` - without the underscore.

//

// Binding 'b' ignored / being used in the legacy way:
//
// - warn_hlsl_deprecated_register_type_b

> // warning: binding type 'b' only applies to constant buffers. The "bool constant" binding type has been removed.

Reviewer: > ...has been removed.

Has been removed from what?  Wonder if "is no longer supported" might be better?

Author: Agreed

float f : register(b0);
// warning: binding type 'b' only applies to constant buffers. The "bool constant" binding type has been removed.
//

// Binding 'i' ignored (also wording):
//
// warn_hlsl_deprecated_register_type_i
// warning: binding type 'i' ignored. The "integer constant" binding type has been removed
float f : register(i0);
// warning: binding type 'i' ignored. The "integer constant" binding type has been removed
//
```

> In DXC, the analysis and diagnostic emission steps would happen in DiagnoseRegisterType(),

Reviewer: I think there's too much detail in this section. The list of diagnostics is useful, but I'd rather just review the implementation after we've agreed on the specific diagnostics rather than review both this textual description of it and the implementation itself.

I've not reviewed anything from here until the Behavioral Differences section.

    emit err_hlsl_binding_type_mismatch

if Basic is set:
  if DefaultGlobals is set:
    if register type is 'b' or 'i':
      emit warn_hlsl_deprecated_register_type_b or warn_hlsl_deprecated_register_type_i respectively

  if register type is 'c'
    if DefaultGlobals is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_register_type_c_packoffset
  else if register type is 't' 'u' or 's':
    emit err_hlsl_binding_type_mismatch
  else: emit err_hlsl_binding_type_invalid

if UDT is set:
  if register type is t:
    if SRV is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
  else if register type is u:
    if UAV is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
  else if register type is b:
    if CBV is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
  else if register type is s:
    if Sampler is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
  else if register type is c:
    if ContainsNumeric is not set:
      emit warn_hlsl_user_defined_type_missing_member
  else
    emit err_hlsl_binding_type_invalid  
```

## Behavioral Differences

This infrastructure will introduce some behavioral differences between `clang` and `dxc`.

> The whole approach of setting flags based on decl characteristics and using them

Reviewer: > The whole approach of setting flags based on decl characteristics and using them to drive diagnostics is an approach that wasn't taken in DXC.

This implementation detail isn't relevant to any behavioral differences.

to drive diagnostics is an approach that wasn't taken in DXC. Secondly, as mentioned above, 
the `disallow-legacy-binding-rules` warning group did not exist in `dxc`, and neither
did any of the warnings that are contained in that group. Those warnings are being 

> introduced to `clang-dxc`. Many of these warnings will be treated as errors, causing some

Reviewer: nit: "clang-dxc" is the driver.  We're introducing these new warnings and errors to clang. It's possible to light up all this proposed functionality without going through clang-dxc.
